[docs] Web renderer (#343)
membraneframework/video_compositor: docs/pages/concept/web.md

:::

## Embedding components

Embedding is a process of displaying child components on a website. You can define the child components in the `children` field of the web view.
The child component IDs have to correspond to the IDs of HTML elements.
The web renderer embeds the children's frames in the specified HTML elements.

### Embedding methods

There are 3 embedding methods available:

- `chromium_embedding` - Frames produced by child components are passed directly to a chromium instance and displayed on an HTML canvas. Passing frames to the chromium instance introduces one more copy operation on each input frame, which may cause performance problems for a large number of inputs. The HTML elements used for embedding have to be canvases.
- `native_embedding_over_content` - Renders frames produced by child components on top of the website's content.
- `native_embedding_under_content` - Renders frames produced by child components below the website's content. The website needs to have a transparent background. Otherwise, it will cover the frames underneath it.

`native_embedding_over_content` is the default embedding method.

> You can change it in the [register renderer request](../api/routes#register-renderer). For example:

Reviewer: This is just a personal opinion, so don't change that just on account of that, but I have seen that in PRs of others and wanted to raise that point.

I often see markdown being written where each sentence is written in a new line. After rendering on a website this will become a single block of text. I prefer to write text like that in a single line and rely on text editor wrapping or to add new lines manually when reaching a specific width, not at the end of the sentence.

The main problem with this current approach is that you don't see how text will be formatted on the website, 
newlines here give an illusion of formatting. For example, if you write 10 sentences like that, each from newline, it will probably look fine in markdown, but on the website, it will be rendered as a huge chunk of text.

cc @WojciechBarczynski @jerzywilczek any opinions on that?

Reviewer 2: We can ban this if you want, I don't feel strong either way

Reviewer 3: We can ban this if you want

```typescript
{
    "type": "register",
    "entity_type": "web_renderer",
    "instance_id": "example_website",
    "url": "https://example.com",
    "resolution": {
        "width": 1920,
        "height": 1080
    },
    // highlight-next-line
    "embedding_method": "chromium_embedding"
}
```

## Example usage

Firstly, the web renderer instance has to be registered:

```typescript
{
    "type": "register",
    "entity_type": "web_renderer",
    "instance_id": "example_website",

>     "url": "https://example.com",

Reviewer: add some embeding method to the example

> # Web Renderer & Web View

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Web Renderer
```

Web rendering is an experimental feature that lets you render websites. 

> Furthermore, you have the flexibility to seamlessly integrate additional components as children and render them within the website. We refer to this process as embedding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, you can seamlessly integrate additional components as children and render them within the website. We refer to this process as embedding.
```
Avoid unnecessary filler words, You can use Grammarly to detect cases like this.  

Also, I'm not really sure what "integrate additional components as children and render them" means.
- integrate as children? - no idea?
- integrate (...) and render? - What is integrating and what is rendering?

> Before you start using web renderer, it's crucial to ensure that you have a compositor version with a built-in web rendering feature. Due to web renderer being complex and large in size we offer 2 version of the compositor, one without web renderer and another one with web renderer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you start using a web renderer, make sure you have a compositor version with web renderer support. The web renderer introduces additional dependencies and significantly increases the size of the compositor binaries. To minimize that impact, we are supporting two versions of the compositor, one with web renderer support and one without it.
```

> While [web renderer](../api/renderers/web.md), as the name implies, renders websites, the [web view](../api/components/WebView.md) component presents the rendered website and is used in the scene definition.

Reviewer 3: This is unnecessary

```suggestion
While [web renderer](../api/renderers/web.md) renders websites, the [web view](../api/components/WebView.md) component presents the rendered website and is used in the scene definition.
```

:::

## Using web renderer & web view
Firstly, the web renderer instance has to be registered:
```typescript
{
    "type": "register",
    "entity_type": "web_renderer",
    "instance_id": "example_website",
    "url": "https://example.com",
    "resolution": {
        "width": 1920,
        "height": 1080
    }
}
```
- `instance_id` - unique renderer identifier, which is used to refer to the web renderer.
- `url` - website url. All protocols supported by chromium can be used

Now, we can define scene with web view component:
```typescript
{
    "type": "update_scene",
    "outputs": [
        {
            "output_id": "output_1",
            "root": {
                "id": "embed_input_on_website",
                "type": "web_view",
                "instance_id": "example_website",
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

`instance_id` - the ID of previously registered web renderer.

That's it!

:::warning
One specific web renderer instance can be used only by one component!
:::

## Embedding other components
Embedding is a process of rendering children components on a website.

There are 3 embedding methods available:

> - `chromium_embedding` - the most flexible method. The children are passed directly to the chromium instance and rendered on HTML canvas. You can animate them and use CSS styles without any problems. However, while it offers the best flexibility, it's also the slowest method.

Reviewer: this is misleading, 
- children are not passed, input frames are, input frames from children
- inputs can be rendered on canvas, but this is sth that user needs to trigger specifically, by calling some function
- "You can animate them and use CSS styles without any problems" - I don't see what purose that sentence have here
- "it's also the slowest method." - technically correct but this will not tell user anything usefull, without explaingin what parts are slow, or in what cases perfromance impact is big

> - `native_embedding_over_content` - renders the website first and then renders child components on top of the website. It's faster than `chromium_embedding`, but CSS styling does not work.

Reviewer: - "CSS styling does not work." - not true
- "It's faster than `chromium_embedding`" - the same as above, do not use faster/slower without a context

- `native_embedding_under_content` - renders component children first and then the website on top of them. The website needs a transparent background. Performance and limitations are the same as for `native_embedding_over_content`.

The default embedding method is `native_embedding_over_content`.
You can change the embedding method in the [register renderer request](../api/routes#register-renderer). For example:

> ```js

Reviewer 3: [NIT]
In other docs, we use `typescript` annotation here. It doesn't make much difference, but let's keep it consistent

{
    "type": "register",
    "entity_type": "web_renderer",
    "instance_id": "example_website",
    "url": "https://example.com",
    "resolution": {
        "width": 1920,
        "height": 1080
    },

>     // NEW

Reviewer: is there sth docusaurs specific that would highlight it better?

Author: I could use line highlights in code blocks
<img width="709" alt="Screenshot 2024-01-11 at 4 38 59 PM" src="https://github.com/membraneframework/video_compositor/assets/16838075/fafba337-d608-49d2-a4cc-5075c845b13e">

    "embedding_method": "chromium_embedding"
}
```

To embed child components into the website we need to modify the scene definition, as well as the website.
Let's update the scene definition and embed an input stream component into the website:
```typescript
{
    "type": "update_scene",
    "outputs": [
        {
            "output_id": "output_1",
            "root": {
                "id": "embed_input_on_website",
                "type": "web_view",
                "instance_id": "example_website",
                // NEW
                "children": [
                    {
                        "type": "input_stream",
                        "input_id": "input_1",
                    }
                ]
            }
        }
    ],
}
```

:::note
The input stream has to be registered beforehand.
:::

> Now we need to modify the website:

Reviewer: do not just provide snippets of code for specific case, explain what user needs to do in general. e.g. It's not obvious what would need to be done to make it work e.g. in react website

> # Web Renderer
> ## Overview

Reviewer 3: [NIT]
```suggestion
# Web Renderer

## Overview
```

Reviewer 3: If you write this in VS Code, check out markdownlint https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=DavidAnson.vscode-markdownlint

# Web Renderer

## Overview

Web rendering is an experimental feature that lets you render websites.
Furthermore, you can place other components on the website. We refer to this process as embedding.

Make sure you have a compositor version built with web renderer support. The web renderer introduces additional dependencies and significantly increases the size of the compositor binaries. To minimize that impact, we are supporting two versions of the compositor, one with web renderer support and one without it.

:::tip

> You can view working example [here](https://github.com/membraneframework/video_compositor/blob/master/examples/web_view.rs)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can view a working example [here](https://github.com/membraneframework/video_compositor/blob/master/examples/web_view.rs)
```

:::

## Embedding components

> Embedding is a process of displaying child component frames on a website. You can define the child components in the `children` field of the web view. Web renderer embeds the frames into HTML elements defined on the website. Those HTML elements can be specified using the JavaScript function `register_inputs`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Embedding is a process of displaying child components on a website. You can define the child components in the `children` field of the web view. Web renderer embeds the frames into HTML elements defined on the website. Those HTML elements can be specified using the JavaScript function `register_inputs`.
```

### `register_inputs` function

 ```ts
 function register_inputs(...element_ids: string[]): void
 ```

Maps the passed element IDs to component IDs provided in the `children` field. Each element ID represents the ID of an HTML element. The function should be called as soon as possible. If the compositor can't map the component ID to the element ID, the web renderer won't render that component. `register_inputs` can be called several times during runtime. Web renderer injects it into the website's window object as a native function.

### Embedding methods

There are 3 embedding methods available:

> - `chromium_embedding` - Frames produced by the child components are passed directly to the chromium instance and displayed on HTML canvas. With this embedding method [`register_inputs`](#register_inputs-function) expects IDs of existing canvas elements. Passing frames to the chromium instance introduces one more copy operation on each input frame, which may cause performance problems for a large number of inputs.
> - `native_embedding_over_content` - Renders frames produced by the child components on top of the website's content.
> - `native_embedding_under_content` - Renders frames produced by the child components below the website's content. The website needs to have a transparent background. Otherwise, it will cover the frames underneath it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `chromium_embedding` - Frames produced by child components are passed directly to a chromium instance and displayed on an HTML canvas. With this embedding method [`register_inputs`](#register_inputs-function) expects IDs of existing canvas elements. Passing frames to the chromium instance introduces one more copy operation on each input frame, which may cause performance problems for a large number of inputs.
- `native_embedding_over_content` - Renders frames produced by child components on top of the website's content.
- `native_embedding_under_content` - Renders frames produced by child components below the website's content. The website needs to have a transparent background. Otherwise, it will cover the frames underneath it.
```

The default embedding method is `native_embedding_over_content`.

> You can change the embedding method in the [register renderer request](../api/routes#register-renderer). For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can change it in the [register renderer request](../api/routes#register-renderer). For example:
```
